# jenkins-sample-spring-microservices
Jenkins CI/CD microservices example



##### Jenkins workspace

The **workspace** directory is where Jenkins builds your project: it contains the source code Jenkins *checks out*, *plus any files generated by the build* itself. This **workspace** is reused for each successive build.



**Declarative** pipeline vs **Scripted** pipeline

**Declarative** pipeline is a relatively new feature that supports the  pipeline as code concept. It makes the pipeline code easier to read and  write. This code is written in a Jenkinsfile which can be checked into a source control management system such as Git.

Whereas, the **Scripted** pipeline is a traditional way of writing the code. In this pipeline, the Jenkinsfile is written on the Jenkins UI instance.

Both these pipelines are based on the Groovy script, declarative pipeline offer a simpler and more optioned Groovy syntax.

The **declarative** pipeline is defined within a block labelled ‘**pipeline**’  whereas the **scripted** pipeline is defined within a ‘**node**’. 

**agent** is where the whole pipeline runs, example: docker. and it has following parameters:

- **any** – Which mean the whole pipeline will run on any available agent.
- **none** – Which mean all the stages under the block will have to declared with agent separately.
- **label** – this is just a label for the Jenkins environment
- **docker** – this is to run the pipeline in Docker environment.

```
pipeline {
  agent { label 'node-1' }
  stages {
    stage('Source') {
      steps {
        git 'https://github.com/digitalvarys/jenkins-tutorials.git''
      }
    }
    stage('Compile') {
      tools {
        gradle 'gradle4'
      }
      steps {
        sh 'gradle clean compileJava test'
      }
    }
  }
}
```

**Scripted Pipeline:**

The scripted pipeline is a traditional way of writing the Jenkins  pipeline as code. Ideally, Scripted pipeline is written in Jenkins file  on web UI of Jenkins. The scripted pipeline provides huge control over the script and can manipulate the flow of script extensively. This helps developers to develop advance and complex pipeline as code.

Structure and syntax of the scripted pipeline:

*Node Block*: node is the part of the Jenkins architecture where Node or agent node will run the part of the workload of the jobs and master node will  handle the configuration of the job.

*Stage block* can be a single stage or multiple as the task goes. And it may have common stages like:

- Cloning the code from SCM
- Building the project
- Running the Unit Test cases
- Deploying the code
- Other functional and performance tests.

```
node ('node-1') {
  stage('Source') {
    git 'https://github.com/user-id/my-repository.git''
  }
  stage('Compile') {
    def gradle_home = tool 'gradle4'
    sh "'${gradle_home}/bin/gradle' clean compileJava test"
  }
}
```

**Declarative** type imposes limitations to the user with a more strict  and pre-defined structure, which would be ideal for simpler continuous  delivery pipelines. 

**Scripted** type has very few limitations that to with respect to  structure and syntax that tend to be defined by Groovy,thus making it  ideal for users with more complex requirements. 